h1. RSS River for Elasticsearch

Welcome to the RSS River Plugin for "Elasticsearch":http://www.elasticsearch.org/ 

h2. Getting Started

h3. Installation

Just type :

<pre>
$ bin\plugin -install dadoonet/rssriver/0.0.5
</pre>

This will do the job...

<pre>
-> Installing dadoonet/rssriver/0.0.5...
Trying https://github.com/downloads/dadoonet/rssriver/rssriver-0.0.5.zip...
Downloading ...DONE
Installed rssriver
</pre>

h3. Creating a RSS river

We create first an index to store all the @feed messages@ :

<pre>
$ curl -XPUT 'localhost:9200/lemonde/' -d '{}'
</pre>

We create the river with the following properties :

* Feed URL : http://www.lemonde.fr/rss/une.xml
* Update Rate : every 15 minutes (15 * 60 * 1000 = 900000 ms)

<pre>
$ curl -XPUT 'localhost:9200/_river/lemonde/_meta' -d '{
  "type": "rss",
  "rss": {
    "feeds" : [ {
    	"name": "lemonde",
    	"url": "http://www.lemonde.fr/rss/une.xml",
    	"update_rate": 900000
    	}
    ]
  }
}'
</pre>

If you need to get multiple feeds, you can add them :

* Feed1 URL : http://www.lemonde.fr/rss/une.xml
* Update Rate1 : every 15 minutes (15 * 60 * 1000 = 900000 ms)

* Feed2 URL : http://www.lemonde.fr/rss/une.xml
* Update Rate2 : every 30 minutes (30 * 60 * 1000 = 900000 ms)

<pre>
$ curl -XPUT 'localhost:9200/actus/' -d '{}'

$ curl -XPUT 'localhost:9200/_river/actus/_meta' -d '{
  "type": "rss",
  "rss": {
    "feeds" : [ {
    		"name": "lemonde",
    		"url": "http://www.lemonde.fr/rss/une.xml",
    		"update_rate": 900000
    	}, {
   		 	"name": "lefigaro",
    	    "url": "http://rss.lefigaro.fr/lefigaro/laune",
    		"update_rate" : 1800000
    	}
    ]
  }
}'
</pre>


h3. Working with mappings

When you create your index, you can specify the mapping you want to use as follow :

<pre>
$ curl -XPUT 'http://localhost:9200/lefigaro/' -d '

$ curl -XPUT 'http://localhost:9200/lefigaro/page/_mapping' -d '{
    "page" : {
        "properties" : {
            "feedname" : {"type" : "string"},
            "title" : {"type" : "string", "analyzer" : "french"},
            "description" : {"type" : "string", "analyzer" : "french"},
            "author" : {"type" : "string"},
            "link" : {"type" : "string"}
        }
    }
}'
</pre>

Then, your feed will use it when you create the river :

<pre>
$ curl -XPUT 'localhost:9200/_river/lefigaro/_meta' -d '{
  "type": "rss",
  "rss": {
    "feeds" : [ {
		    "url": "http://rss.lefigaro.fr/lefigaro/laune"
	    }
    ]
  }
}'
</pre>

h2. Behind the scene

RSS river downloads RSS feed every @update_rate@ milliseconds and check if there is new messages.

At first, RSS river look at the @<channel>@ tag.
It reads the optional @<pubDate>@ tag and store it in Elastic Search to compare it on next launch.

Then, for each @<item>@ tag, RSS river creates a new document within @page@ type with the following properties :

|_. XML Tag             |_. ES Mapping |
| @<title>@             | title        |
| @<description>@       | description  |
| @<author>@            | author       |
| @<link>@              | link         |
| @<geo:lat>@ @<geo:long>@ | location         |

@ID@ is generated from description using the "UUID":https://github.com/elasticsearch/elasticsearch/blob/master/modules/elasticsearch/src/main/java/org/elasticsearch/common/UUID.java generator. So, each message is indexed only once.

Read "RSS 2.0 Specification":http://www.rssboard.org/rss-specification for more details about RSS channels.

h1. To Do List

Many many things to do :

* As @<pubDate>@ tag is optional, we have to check if RSS River is working in that case and parse each feed message
* Support more RSS @<channel>@ sub-elements, such as @<category>@, @<skipDays>@, @<skipHours>@
* Support more RSS @<item>@ sub-elements, such as @<category>@, @<enclosure>@, @<pubDate>@
* Support for multi-channel (one per language for instance)
* Use @<ttl>@ to manage sleep time of the river
* Use @<guid>@ as the text to encode to generate @ID@
